# Monty-Hall-python-project
This was a small Python project where I created a simulation of the famous Monty Hall problem. 
You’re a contestant on the gameshow Let’s Make a Deal, and you need to pick from one of three doors: behind one is a fabulous prize, behind the other two are joke prizes. After you make your first choice, the host reveals one of the doors with no prize. Then, you get to choose again—do you keep your first choice of door, or do you switch to the other door that wasn’t revealed? This question is known as the Monty Hall Problem. It’s an exercise in using statistics to make an informed decision (instead of relying on gut feeling, as many contestants do). Using the power of Python, we can find out which option is more statistically successful by simulating the game.

After we do, we can see that sticking with your original door gives you about a 33% chance of winning, while switching doors gives you about a 66% chance of winning. Why? At first, with three options, any door has a 1/3 chance of having the prize behind it. However, after one of the losing doors is revealed, only two options remain: your original door, and the other door that wasn't revealed. The probability of all doors having the prize must add up to 1, since there's a 100% chance a prize is behind some door. Your original door still has that 1/3 chance of being the winner, so that means the other door that wasn't revealed must have a 2/3 chance of being the winner. 1/3 as a percent is about 33%, and 2/3 is about 66%. Now we can see where those calculations came from.

With the power of probability and Python, we now know that sticking with your gut is the statistically incorrect choice in the Monty Hall problem.
